## CISSP Study Guide



#### <font color="#007800">1.5 Understand legal and regulatory issues that pertain to information security in
a holistic context </font>

**Intellectual Property**
 
The intangible creations of the human intellect that are protected under law, affording the creator certain rights in the making, use, and selling of their creation for a limited time. There are four categories recognized in the United Stated: copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret. Other countries may have more or less IP categories.
United States Patent and Trademark Office: https://www.uspto.gov/



**Copyright**

A form of protection provided by the laws of the Untied States to the authors of “original works of authorship” that are fixed in a tangible medium of expression. An original work of authorship is a work that is independently creaed by a human author and possess at least some minimal degree of creativity.
- Examples: Songs, books, movies, and sculptures
- Registration:  No registration is required and the use of © is allowed. Registration through the Library of Congress provides several benefits including suing for statutory damages in cases of infrigement. Original works of authorship are protected under copyright the moment they are created (fixed on a medium), to a limited degree.
- Fair use: Provides other limited use of copyrighted material for the purposes such as criticism, news reporting, teaching, and research, without the need for permission from or payment to the copyright holder.


#### <font color="#007800">1.6 Understand requirements for investigation types (i.e., administrative, criminal, civil, regulatory, industry standards) </font>
This section contains an overview of the different legal branches in the US, and helps to determine the proper path for recourse.

**Types of laws**
- <u>Criminal Law</u> – A system of laws concerned with crimes and the punishment of individuals who commit them. The government (prosecutor) accuses an individual or entity (defendant) of violating criminal statutes. The prosecutor is responsible for proving the defendants guild and the defendant is responsible for challenging it. Burden of proof is beyond a reasonable doubt. Crimes are broken down into two categories:
    - <u>Felonies</u>: A serious crime punishable by at least one year of state or federal prison, and up to death. Examples include arson, fraud, assault, grand larceny, murder, etc.
    - <u>Misdemeanors</u>: A lesser crime punishable by a fine and/or county jail time for up to one year. Examples include petty theft, public intoxication, reckless driving, and trespassing.
- <u>Civil Law</u> – A legal system focused on resolving disputes between private individuals or entities through the adjudication of a court. In civil law a plaintiff accuses the defendant for perceived wrong and seeks remedy. The burden of proof is a preponderance of evidence, requiring the plaintiff to demonstrate that it’s more likely than not that the defendant is responsible for the alleged harm. Examples of civil cases include breaches of contracts, personal injuries, property disputes, and family matters. Remedies are typically compensation, injunction, or compelled actions through court orders.
- <u>Regulatory Law</u> (AKA Administrative Law) – For holding organizations accountable when failing to comply with regulatory requirements, or challenging government decisions when actions are perceived to be inconsistent with the law.

How laws are created in the US
- <u>Common law (case law)</u> – When court decisions make new interpretations of the law and, therefore, can be cited as precedent.
- <u>Statutory law</u> – When law is created by legislative bodies through the enactment of statutes or laws.

**Internal Investigations**

It's worth noting that when an employee violates or is alleged to have violated a policy, the inventigation is handled internally. The penalties for finding an employee guilty are labor related, such as a suspension, demotion, or firing. If it is determined that the employee has also violated a law or restitution is required, then the employer may report the crime or sue the individual.




















    
